for although the chinese took impressions from wood blocks, engraved in relief for centuries before the woodcutters of the netherlands by a similar process.
what the first bible actually dated, which also was printed at mace by peter shaffer in the year 1462?.
especially as regards to lowercase letters and type very similar was used during the next 15 or 20 years, not only by chauffeur.
buy printers in strasburg, basil, paris, lubec and other cities.
but don't expect in italy letter with most often used.
a very few years saw the birth of roman character not only in italy but in germany and france.
1465 swain haim and pennartz began printing in the monastery of subiaco near rome.
printed very few books in this type 3 only, but in their very, first book syndrome beginning with the year 1468.
about the same year mental in at strasburg began to print in a type which is distinctly roman.
and the next year, gunther's designer at augsburg followed suit.
1470 at paris associates turned out the first books printed in france, also in roman character.
it must be said that it is in no way like the transition type of subiaco.
and though more roman than that yet scarcely more like the comple'te roman type of the earliest printers of rome'.
the further development of the roman letter took place at venice.
john of spiders and his brother, vendelin began to print.
bob jensen, it must be said that he carried the development of roman type as far as it can go.
after his death in the 1480s or at least by 1490, printing in venice had declined very much.
and though the famous family of aldis restored its technical excellence, rejecting battered letters.
yet their type is artistically on a much lower level than jensen's and in fact.
they must be considered to have ended the age of fine printing in italy.
jensen, however, had many contemporaries who use beautiful type.
some of which as eg that of jacobus rubeus or jacques lu, is scarcely distinguishable from his.
it was these great venetian printers together with their brethren of rome, milan.
and one or two other cities who produced the splendid editions of the classics, which are one of the great glories of the printers are.
even in italy, most of the field logical and law books were printed in gothic letter.
many of whose types indeed like that of the subiaco works are of a transitional character.
this was notably the case with the early works printed at home and in a somewhat lesser degree at augsburg.
in fact, gunther's designers first type afterwards used by schussler is remarkably like the type of the before mentioned subiaco books.
in the low countries and cologne which were very fertile of printed books, gothic was the favorite.
the characteristic dutch type as represented by the excellent printer lou is very pronounced and uncompromising.
this type was introduced into england by winkin to word paxton's successor.
most of caxton zone types of an earlier character.
after the end of the fifteenth century, the depredations of printing especially in germany and italy.
england, about this time an attempt, was made notably by castle on who started business in london as a type founder in 1720.
ashland's type is clear and neat and fairly well design.
where the 17th century letters are at least pure and simple inline the italian and the frenchman dido.
are the leaders in this luckless change, though, our own baskerville who was at work some years before them went much on the same lines?.
chiswick press in 1844 revived castle on stops printing for measures the diary of lady willoughby.
this experiment was so far successful that about 1,850 measures miller and richard attenborough.
now, come into general use that are obviously a great improvement on the ordinary, modern style and use in england, which is in fact the bodony type.
it is discouraging to note that the improvement of the last 50 years is almost wholly confined to great britain.
here and there a book is printed in france or germany with some pretension to good taste.
italy is contentedly stagnant.
america has produced a good many show me books the typography paper and illustrations of which are, however.
even the cast one type when enlarged shows great shortcomings in this ?respect.
instead of ending in the sharp and clear stroke of jensen's letters.
this is awkward if you have to read bradshaws, died in a hurry.
most of jensen's letters are designed with in a square.
that made in america, which is the worst conceivable.
the position of our society that don't work of utility might be also a work of art if we care to make it so.
the chronicles of nougat volume to arthur griffith's section for new gate, down to 1818.
with criminals and misdemeanants of all shades crowding perpetually into its narrow limits, the letter state of new gate was worse than the first.
neeld gives some figures which will illustrate this.
the numbers soon increased, however, and by 1811 had again risen to 629 and mr nield was told that there had been at one time.
300 debtors and 900 criminals in newgate or 1,200 prisoners in all.
previous to that date there have been 700 or 800 frequently and once in mr eckermann's time 1000.
the adequacy of the jail was noticed and reported upon again and again the city of london.
seldom let a session go by without visiting you, gate.
the grand jury made a special presentment to the court of common council, pointing out on the side, which was intended for only 100.
returns laid before the house of commons showed that 6,439 persons have been committed to nougat.
this number did not include the debtors, a numerous class who were still committed to newgate, pending the completion of the white cross street prison.
in order to realize the evil entailed by incarceration in newgate in these days, it is necessary to give some account of its interior.
full details of the arrangements are to be found in mr neil's state of prisons in england, scotland and wales published in 1812.
neeld takes it for granted that the former rather than the latter prevailed in the selection.
the long narrow yard still remained as we saw it in jacobite times.
on the top of the jail continues neeld, arawatch house and a century box where two or more guards with dogs and firearms.
neeld gives on the authority of mr  burchell the undersheriff of middlesex.
table showing the figures for the year ending michael miss 1802.
15,000 of these were issued in middlesex alone, which at that time was reckoned as only a 15th of great britain.
the number of arrests actually made was 114,300 for the kingdom and 7024 middlesex.
neeld also says that in 1793.
5719 ricks and executions for decks between 10 lb and 20 lb were issued in middlesex.
alfred, the great established the court baron the hundred court and the county court, which, among other matters, entertain, please for debt.
lake county court was the sheriffs who said they're surrounded by the bishop and the magnets of the county.
but as time passed difficulties and delays in obtaining judgment led to the removal of causes to the great court of king's bench.
so much inconvenience ensued that in 1518 the corporation obtained from parliament and act empowering to alderman.
f!our common councilman to hold courts of requests or courts of conscience to hear and determine all causes of death.
these courts were extended to centuries later to several large provincial towns and all were in full activity when nield road.
the activity, as well as the futility of these courts, may be estimated from the statement given by neil.
1312 debtors were committed by them to newgate between 1797 and 1808.
field found at his visit to newgate in 1810.
amongst others, thomas blackburn had been committed on october 15th for a debt of one shilling five pence.
thomas dobson, on 22nd august 1799 for one shilling with costs of eight shillings, ten pence.
and susanna evans in october the same year for two shillings with cost 6 shillings a pence.
other cases are recorded elsewhere that the gilts 1st street concert, where in 1805 mister kneeled, found a man named william grant.
and john lancaster, for one shilling, a test with costs of 7 shillings sixpence quote.
these, surely, i thought, says mr  neal, we're bad enough, but it was not so and quote.
he recites another most outrageous and extraordinary case in which one john byrd.
bird was however discharged within 3 days by a subscription raised among his fellow prisoners.
mr buxton, in his inquiry into the system of prison discipline.
aladdin question was found in coldbath field's prison to which he had been sent for a month in default of paying a fine of forty shillings.
he had been in the employ of a corn chandler at islington and went into london with his master's cart and horse.
there was in the city road a temporary bar with a collector of tolls who was sometimes on the spot and sometimes not.
mr buxton's friends at once paid the forty shillings, and the boy was released.
neils gives a list of the various items charged upon a debt of 10 lb, which included instructions to sue.
before dealing with the debtors in newgate prefer, incidentally.
to those in other london prisons for new gate was not the only place of durance for these unfortunate people there were also the king's bench.
the fleet and the marshalsea prison especially devoted to them.
whilst ludgate, the gilt's 1st street and borrow, comforters also received them.
the king's bench was a national prison in which were confined all debtors arrested for debt or for contempt of the court of the king's bench.
the best or at least the most influential prisoners, god lodging in the statehouse, which contained eight large, handsome rooms.
keeper of the large tap room called the brace because it was once kept by two brothers named partridge also paid him toll.
the sale of spirits was forbidden, but june could always be had at the whistling shops where it was known as moonshine sky blue.
mexico and was consumed at the rate of a hogshead per week.
the fleet, which stood in farrington street.
what's a prison for debtors and persons committed for contempt by the courts of chancery, exchequer and common pleas?.
it was so used for the date of the abolition of the star chamber in the sixteenth charles ?the first.
shameful malpractices of bambridge.
the warden of the fleet at the commencement of the 18th century are too ?well ?known to ?need more than ?a ?passing reference.
committee of the house of commons investigated the charges against bambridge, who was proved to have connived at the escape.
went to have been guilty of extortion, two others, one sir william rich baronet, he had loaded with heavy irons.
in consequence of these disclosures bambridge and hugging his predecessor in the office or committed to newgate?.
the committee on jails reported that quote although the house of the warden looked into the court.
senators, we're rather better at the marshalsea.
this very ancient prison, which stood in the high street south, were.
was used for debtors arrested for the lowest psalms within 12 miles of the palace of whitehall.
also for prisoners committed by the admiralty court.
one time, the marshalsea was the receptacle of pirates, but none more committed to it ?after 1789.
the court of the marshalsea was instituted by charles the first in the sixth year of his reign.
but its business was much reduced by the extension of the courts of conscience.
the prison was a nest of abuse has like its neighbor the king's bench.
and came under the strong animated version of the jail committee of 1729.
has the business of the marshalsea court declined the numbers in its prison diminished.
quarreling throwing water over being sent to coventry.
going to many charitable gifts and request, which included annual donations from the archbishop of canterbury.
the lord steward of the household the stewart and officers of the marshalsea court and o'ther's.
left by a mister, henry, who was long a prisoner in the marshalsea and came into a fortune while there?.
is bequest, which was charged upon his manner at goering auxins and hence called the oxford charity.
supreme control of the marshalsea was vested in the marshal of the royal household, but although he drew a salary of 500 pounds a year.
comforters of ludgate, giltspur, street and the borough, where discontinued as debtor's prisons as was newgate also.
show me opening up white cross prison for debtors in 1815.
ludgate to the last was the debtor's prison for freeman of the city of london.
clergyman proctors attorneys and persons specially selected by the corporation.
at one time, the ludgate debtors accompanied by the keeper.
spruce street compton received sheriffs, debtors also felons, vagrants and knight charges.
it was generally crowded as debtors who would have gone to the poultry copter we sent to giltspur street when the former was condemned as unfit to receive prisoners.
the demands for fees were excessive in gilts, first street.
the borough compter was in a disgraceful state to the last the men's ward, had an earth or rather a mud floor.
in one room, mister neill found a woman of a flux shut up with three men.
neeld found the prisoners in the boro compter ragged, starving and dirty.
i come now to the debtors in newgate they occupied we're divided as i have said into three principal divisions.
on the master side, it was 13 and 4 pints and a gallon of beer on entrance, although mr newman.
and gave the garnish for the common side at that some, which is 5 shillings more than mr neeld, says, was extorted on the common side.
there was this much honest forbearance in newgate in these days.
notably, as when numbers filled new gate in anticipation of lord reds, dale's bill for insolvent debtors.
the chronicles of nougat volume 2 by arthur griffith's section v newgate, down to 18 18 part 2.
enough has been said, probably to prove that there was room for improvement in the condition and treatment of debtors in the prisons of the city of london.
is gradually was forced upon the consciousness of the corporation.
authority was given to raise money on the orphan's fund to the extent of 90,000 lb.
a site was purchased between red lion and white cross street and a new prison plan.
which would accommodate the inmates of newgate and of the three comforters ludgate.
notes for street and the poultry, or about 476 and all.
and it was not ready to relieve newgate till late in 1815.
could not be carried out till then it is to be feared that long after the opening of white cross street prison.
newgate continued to be a reproach to those responsible for its management.
bypass now to the criminal side of newgate, which consisted of the six quarters or yards, already enumerated and describe.
in this heterogeneous society were also thrown the unfortunate journalists to whom i have already referred and on whom imprisonment in you gay.
it was particularly recommended by the committee on jails in 1814.
the honorable hg bennett, who visited new gate in 1817, saw in one yard in a total of 72 prisoners.
mr  benes refers to a gentleman confined for want of bail who occupied a room with five others.
these often remained in newgate for 6 months, sometimes a year in some cases longer.
mr newman admitted that she had petitioned that certain trustee men might be left in the jail.
mr  bennet mentions also the case of young men have better stamp clarkson, city offices and youths of good parentage.
mr buxton in the work already quoted instances another grievous case of the horrors of indiscriminate association in newgate.
having been committed to clerkenwell?.
he was sent on to you guys in a coach handcuffed to a noted house breaker was afterwards, cast for death.
the first night in newgate for the subsequent fortnight.
his wife visited him in newgate, a pitiable account of the state, in which she found her husband.
the fee for admission to the stateside, as fixed by the table of fees, was 3 guineas, but mr newman declared that he never took more than two.
a mr  lundy, charged with forgery, was us accommodated on the stateside for upwards of five years.
mr  davidson sent to newgate for embezzlement and whose case is given in the preceding chapter.
was accommodated with a room in mr  newman's house at the extravagant rental of 13 guineas per week.
mr  cabot was also a larger of mr  newman's, and so were any members of the aristocracy.
if they happened to be in funds among whom was the marquis of slego in 1811.
which will deal with mrs  frie's philanthropic exertions at this  in this particular part of the prison.
once during the long elness of george, the third as many as 100 were there waiting the report as it was called.
mr  bennett speaks of 38 capital convicts he found in the press yard in february 1817.
these capital convict, says mr  bennet, quote lessons the ennui and despair of their situation by unbecoming merriment.
i saw cashman a few hours before his execution smoking and drinking with the utmost unconcerned and indifference end quote.
such as measures, virtual corn hill and messrs leach and dollemore of ludgate hill.
preparatory to their appearance in the old bailey, irons were seldom removed from the convicted until discharge.
any reputed and indeed any real wife might spend the night in newgate if she would pay this chilling c commonly known as? ?the ?bad ?money.
check the open house so to speak and entertained daily within the walls, a select party of the most noted thieves in london.
going to the facility of intercourse between inside and outside many crimes, we're doubtless hacked in uk.
why did leave, says mr bennett in the letter already largely quoted?.
but there is no place in the metropolis, where more crimes are projected or where stolen property is more secreted.
although attempted partially at bridewell and more systematically at the new millbank penitentiary.
it was not strange, therefore, that the inmates of nougat should turn their unoccupied brains and idle hands to all manner of mischief.
the report of the committee of the house of commons painted so black a picture of new gays has been conducted that the corporation were roused in very shame.
court of aldermen appointed a committee of its own body assisted by the town clock mr  city surveyor sun to the architect?.
s!end mr  addison keeper of new gate to make a visitation of the jails supposed to be the best managed including those of petworth and gloucester.
also to make such proposals, as might appear salutary and calculated to improve new gays and the rest of the city jails.
have they been accepted in their entirety little salt couldn't future have been found with the managers of newgate?.
the committee did not deny the superior advantages offered by such prisons as gloucester and petworth.
and quote, it would cover some 30 acres and cost a great deal more than the city with the example of white cross street prison before it.
the committee does not seem to have yet understood that new gate could be only and properly replaced.
buy a new jail built on the outskirts as holloway eventually was and committed itself to be altogether counter.
im checked in its efforts towards reform by the prohibitory costliness of the land about nougat.
it was very desirable that there should be a more speedy removal of transports from you gate to the ships.
again, there was a new millbank penitentiary now ready for occupation.
why not relieving you gate more largely upon the superior accommodation which build bank offer.
chronicles of new gate volume 2 by arthur griffith section 7, the beginnings of prison reform.
mister kneeled a second howard!.
mr nield was compelled to admit in 1812 that the great reformation produced by howard.
i have shown in a previous chapter what new gate was at this  despite a vast expenditure and boasted efforts to introduce reforms.
watching son the duke of gloucester was the patron among the vice presidents were many great peers of the realm.
several bishops and a number of members of the house of commons, including mr manners sutton.
sturgis born sir james mcintosh, sir james scarlet, wilberforce.
one of the moving spirits was the honorable hg bennett auntie, whose vigorous protests against the lamentable condition of newgate, have already been recorded.
mrs  fry's brother, mr  samuel hoare junior, was chairman of the committee on which also served many noted members of the society of friends.
mr buxton had already been associated with misses frying and you get visitation and his attention had this been drawn to the neglected state of english prisons.
when in belgium, he had examined with great satisfaction, the admirable management of the great maison de force against.
which howard had eulogized some 40 years before.
richard buxton small work on prison discipline avenue aspect to the question he' had so much at heart.
they had a right mr buxton firmed to be employed in their own crafts, provided it could be safely followed in prison.
the convicted delinquent has his right, said mr buxton authoritatively.
as mr  buxton pointed out, many old acts of parliament designed to protect the prisoner were still in full force.
as far back is the reign of charles ii, a law was passed to clearing the sufficient provision should be made for the relief and setting on work.
again, the 22 charles ii c20 order the jailer to keep felons and debtors separate and apart from one another.
how much later act the 14 george, the third c59 1774?.
which was contemporaneous, with howard's first journeys laid down precise rules as regards cleanliness and the ?proper supply of space & air.
in an early report of the prison discipline, improvement society.
in 1818, out of 518 prisons in the united kingdom.
specify more particularly one or two of the worst, it may be mentioned that in the boro comforter.
mr buxton, who found this declared that it seemed physically impossible, but he was assured that it was true.
and the turnkey told mr buxton that the smell on first opening the door with enough to knock down a horse.
gildford prison, which mr buxton also visited in 1818.
matters, we're on much the same footing at st albans.
they were far worse at bristol.
although it mr buxton's visit, a new jail was in process of erection the first step towards reform since howard's visitation in 1774.
in the crowd all of them persons who had no other avocation or mode of livelihood, but leaving mr buxton counted 11 children.
it was a scene of infertile passions and distressed, says buxton, which few have imagination sufficient to picture.
consignment for 12 months in the bristol jail was counted a punishment equivalent to seven year's transportation.
already as early as 1818, prison existed at bury st edmunds, which was a model for imitation to others at that time.
another jail that appeal chester was also worthy of all commendation, it exhibited all the good points of that it very.
ilchester, the rule of employment have been carried further.
the system not adopted generally till nearly half a century later had already prevail that bill chester.
compared with those highly meritorious institutions, newgate still showed but badly.
mainly through the exertions of a new governor, mr  brown, who succeeded mr newman at newgate in 1817.
mr  brown confidently asserted that no jail in england now.
mr  brown, also much to his own credit  the practice of ironing all prisoners as a matter, of course.
in 1818, prisoners awaiting trial in newgate relieved from this illegal infliction.
mr buxton mentions the case of a boy whose apparent innocence and artlessness had attracted his attention.
he left newgate, charlie corrupted after lapsing into crim,e soon returned with a very different character.
some attempt was made to reduce the overcrowding on the recommendation of the house of commons committee of 1818, but this applied only a partial remedy.
just disposing of the objection so long ranged against the industrial employment of prisoners in newgate.
as the prison discipline, society pertinently observed in a report dated 1820.
the chronicles of nougat volume 2 by arthur griffith, section 8, the beginnings of prison reform.
newgate prisoners were the victims to another most objectionable practice, which obtained all over london.
even though they were not certain of the favor for i find reference to a decent and respectable woman sent to newgate.
one smug alderman, a member of the house of commons, sneered at the ultra philanthropy of the champions of prison improvement.
our prisoners have all that prisoners ought to have without gentlemen, think they ought to be indulged with turkey carpets.
the society for the improvement of prison discipline was taxed with a desire to introduce a system.
an imputation, which the society indignantly and very justly repudiated the statement being as they said.
among those from the society found a raid against it was sidney smith.
admitting the good intentions of the society, he condemned there ultra humanitarianism as misplaced.
he took exception to various of the proposals of the society he thought they linked too muc'h' !to ?a ?system of indulgences and ?education ?in ?jails.
society pursuit it's laudable undertaking with a remarkable energy and great singleness of purpose.
the good at tried to do took active shape in the establishment of temporary refuges at hoxton for males and in the hackney road for females.
for the reception of deserving cases discharged from prison, the governor, a new gate and other metropolitan prisons, had orders of admission to this refuge.
brandon, moral and religious duty and which after a time sought to provide them with suitable situations was supported entirely out of the funds of the society.
another point to which the society devoted infinite was the preparation of plans for the guidance of architects in the construction of prisons.
a very valuable volume published by the society.
or a dungeon above or below the gate of a town to the first attempts at systematic reconstruction carryout under the advice and supervision of howard?.
was introduced as early as 1790 by mr blackburn.
the society did not limit its remarks to the description of what had already been done.
the new jails, as howard says having pompous fronts, appear like palaces to the lower class of people and many persons are against them on this account.
the prison society reproves the misdirected efforts of ambitious architect to buy a lavish an improvident expenditure of public money.
these are principles fully recognized nowadays, and it may fairly be conceded that the prison discipline society's ideal.
after a few years of active exertion, the society was rewarded by fresh legislation.
to it?s efforts and their effect upon parliament and the public mind we must attribute the new jail acts of for george the 4th.
cap 64 and 5 george the fourth cap 85.
classification was insisted upon in the manner laid down by the 24 george the third cat 54.
the second act passed in the following year enlarged and amended the first and at the same time gave powers to the house.
the promulgation of these to jail acts strengthen the hands of the prison discipline society enormously.
upon these and the private visitations made by various members of the society, obtained effects.
tales, of which the old prison at reading was a specimen, were still left intact.
numbers of the jails were still on provided with chaplains and the prisoners never heard divine service.
the interior of one prison was illuminated throughout with gas still a novelty which had been generally adopted in london only 4 years previously.
four years later, the prison society reported.
at the new prison, clerkenwell, which had become the principal reception jail of middlesex and so took all the untried.
yet to clerkenwell, we're now committed the juvenile and all who are inexperienced in crime.
mister peel, who as home secretary had charge of the bill.
which became the four george? the 4th tap 64 said that he had abstained from legislating for these small jurisdictions on mature deliberation.
at this time there were in england, 170 barros cities, towns and liberties.
as the science he put it in 1827 the friends to the improvement of prison discipline.
this is sorry she proceeded to support this indictment by fax it is much the old story.
i just chillin by the report of the commissioners to inquire into the ?state of the municipal corporations i?n ?1835.
dennis murder in marion sure had besides the pinfold and the stocks or crib a little prison.
clun in shropshire had a lock up under the town hall.
i in suffolk the jail was part of the pour house, so it was at richmond in yorkshire, where the master of the workhouse was also keeper of the jail,.
godmanchester, there was no jail, but cage to secure prisoners till they could be taken before a magistrate.
kidderminster had a prison one dance chill room.
walsall and staffordshire?.
newgate through all these years continue to buy word with the society.
what was pointed out in 1823 that defective construction must always bar the way to any radical improvement in newgate.
in 1824, do gays had no glass and its windows, except in the infirmary and one ward of the chapel yard.
there was a diminution in the numbers in custody due to the adoption of the practice of not committing and wants to newgate every offender for trial at the old bailey.
in 1827 the society was compelled to report that no material change has taken place in newgate 'since the passing of the prison laws.
idleness was still the general rule for all prisoners in newgate in defiance of the law.
i shall have more to say on this subject and upon the state of nougat generally in the following chapter.
the prison society did not relax its efforts, as time passed, but its leading members had other and more pressing claims upon their energies.
mr buxton had succeeded to the great work which william wilberforce had commenced and led the repeated attacks upon slavery in british colonies.
nevertheless, a committee of the house of commons was appointed in 1831 to report upon the whole system of secondary punishments.
this committee anniversary strongly upon the system in force at the metropolitan jails and more especially upon the condition of nougat.
mister samuel hoare was examined by this committee.
i stated that in his opinion new gate as the common jail of middlesex, was wholly inadequate to the proper confinement of its prisoners.
prisoners were crowded together in the jail, contrary to the requirements of the for george, the 4th.
again in 1835, prisons and their inmates became once more the care of the senate and the subject was taken up this time by the house of lords.
the committee was appointed under the presidency of the duke of richmond.
to inquire into and report upon the several jails and houses of correction in the county's cities and corporate towns within england and wales.
the lord's committee fully recognize the painful fact.
still under the burrow corporations, the commons committee gave it as their opinion that' they were in a deplorable state.
in some large towns as at berwick on tweed southampton, and south work they the prisons are in a very discreditable condition.
the lords committee on jails were of the same opinion that considered the prisons under corporat'e 'or peculiar jurisdiction in a very unsatisfactory condition'.
the whole question was again dealt with in lord john russell bill for the reform of the municipal corporation's and with a more liberal election of town councillors.
the chronicles of nougat volume 2 by arthur griffith's section 9, the first report of the inspector of prisons.
newgate has remained rather in the background while the whole of the jails as a body wear under discussion.
i shall not return to the great jail if the city of london and give a more detailed account of its condition and inner life.
these gentlemen were appointed in october 1835, owing to the strong representations of the lords committee.
mister samuel hoare, when examined considered it indispensably necessary to carry out whatever system might be established.
sir frederick roe was of the same opinion as regards the appointment, but he would give the inspectors the power of acting as well as reporting.
with those who made the selection of the first inspectors and the two gentlemen appointed, we're probably the most fitted in england to be so employed.
mr  william crawford, the other the reverend whitworth russell.
william crawford had been one of the promoters and managers of the philanthropic societie's farm school.
later on, he had devoted himself to the personal investigation of the prisons of the united states.
at that time, the mild and intelligent prison discipline in force in pennsylvania, the legacy of the old quaker immigrants.
i've made such prisons at auburn a model for imitation.
france had sent misuse beaumont and de tocqueville, who subsequently published several interesting works on the subject.
england was represented by mr  crawford and the result of his inquiry was given to the public as an appendix to the house of commons report on secondary punishments.
mr  crawford was thoroughly versed in the still, imperfectly understood science of prison management and fully qualified for his new duties.
the second inspector, the reverend which force russell was the chaplain of milbank penitentiary.
g?reat ?architectural experiment, which grew out of the strong representations of jeremy, bentham and others and was the first national recognition of the principal.
weathers crawford and russell proceeded to carry out their new functions with commendable energy and without a moment's loss of time.
the ink is barely dry upon their letters of appointment before they appeared at newgate' and commenced a ?searching investigation.
unlimited it to newgate alone, newgate indeed became the sole seam of their first report.
it was no longer the faintest possible excuse for overcrowding the numbers now committed to newgate.
an occasional prisoner or to committed by the houses of parliament, the courts of king's bench common pleas.
exchequer the commissioners of bankruptcy and of taxes, smugglers and a larger number sentence for very short terms.
temporary fences of the most varying description by the central criminal court.
but incredible as it may appear the authorities of newgate declined to avail themselves of the advantages offered them.
don't doubt the governor for the time being mr  cope was in a great measure to blame for all this, and for the want of proper classification.
marshall's application to speak again and mouret life of mr  cope's careless and perfunctory discharge.
he blamed the construction of new gate for the neglect of classification and was yet compelled to confess that he had made no attempt, whatever to carry it out.
we didn't this the greatest nursery of crime in london should exercise even the commonest care for the personal decency or comfort of the prisoners.
i always smoke his pipe undisturbed for although the use of tobacco have been prohibited since the report of the lord's committee.
nothing was more prominently brought out by the inspectors and the inefficiency of the governor at that time, mister co.
but it is only fair to mr  coat to state that he himself said he went whenever he could find time.
and it was not the least part of the blame imputed to him that he made special favourites of particular prisoners retaining of his own accord in newgate.
edward gibbon wakefield, who spent three years in newgate a little before the time of the inspector's first report.
said with justice that incredible scenes of horror occur in newgate.
it was more over in his opinion, undoubtedly the greatest nursery of crime in london.
the most popular being the x morning herald morning chronicle on sunday the weekly dispatch and the weekly messenger?.
novels / songs play books such as jane shore grimm's german tails with crookshank's illustrations.
one of these published by stockdale, the inspector styled a book of the most disgusting nature.
the donation of a philanthropic gentleman, captain brown, but these particularly the bibles for a little appearance of having been used.
a lad named matthew white has had a wound in his eye by a bone thrown at him, which very nearly destroyed vision.
watkin's disney joint is very severely injured.
a prisoner baxter is in the infirmary in consequence of a severe injury to his wrist joint.
watkin's case referred to above is made the subject of another and a special report from the surgeon.
he was in the transport side when one of his fellows in endeavoring to strike another pris,on'er with a large poker missed his aim and struck watkin's knee.
famous female side where the ladie's association still reigned supreme more system and a greater semblance of decorum was maintained.
the separation of the sexes was not in deed rigidly carried out in newgate as yet.
could also at any time for tea coffee and sugar to mrs brown's shop, which was inside the female gate.
committed by the house of commons who had been lodged in the governor's own house?.
