for although the chinese took impressions from wood blocks, engraved in relief for centuries before the woodcutters of the netherlands by a similar process..
but the first bible, actually dated which also was printed at maintz by peter schoeffer in the year 1462..
especially as regards the lower case letters and type very similar was used during the next fifteen, or twenty years, not only by schoeffer..
but by printers in strasburg, basle, paris, lubeck and other cities..
but though on the whole except in italy, gothic letter was most often used..
a very few years saw the birth of roman character not only in italy but in germany and france..
in 1465, sweynheim and pannartz began printing in the monastery of subiaco near rome..
they printed very few books in this type, three only but in their very first books in r.o.m.e. .beginning with the year 1468..
but about the same year mentelin at strasburg began to print in a type which is distinctly roman..
and the next year, gunther zeiner at augsburg followed suit..
while in 1470 at paris udalric gering and his associates turned out the first books printed in france, also in roman character..
it must be said that it is in no way like the transition type of subiaco..
and though more roman than that yet scarcely more like the comple'te roman roman type of the earliest printers of rome'.
a further development of the roman letter took place at venice..
john of spires and his brother vindelin, followed by nicholas jenson, began to print in that city..
o?f jenson, it must be said that he carried the development of roman type as far as it can go..
after his death in the fourteen eighties or at least by 1490, printing in venice had declined very much..
and though the famous family of aldus restored its technical excellence rejecting battered letters..
yet their type is artistically on a much lower level than jenson and in fact..
they must be considered to have ended the age of fine printing in italy..
jenson, however, had many contemporaries who used beautiful type..
some of which as e g that of jacobus rubeus or jacques le rouge is scarcely distinguishable from his..
it was these great venetian printers together with their brethren of rome, milan..
parma and one or two other cities who produced the splendid editions of the classics, which are one of the great glories of the printer art..
even in italy, most of the theological and law books were printed in gothic letter..
m.any of whose types indeed like that of the subiaco works are of a transitional character..
this was notably the case with the early works printed at 'ulm 'and !in a somewhat lesser degree a.t. ?a.u.g.s.b.u.r.g..
in fact, gunther zeiner, first type afterwards used by schussler, is remarkably like the type of the before mentioned subiaco books..
in the low countries and cologne which were very fertile of printed books, gothic was the favorite..
the characteristic dutch type as represented by the excellent printer gerard leew is very pronounced and uncompromising gothic..
this type was introduced into england by wynkyn de worde caxton successor..
most of caxton own types are of an earlier character, though they also much resemble flemish or cologne letter..
after the end of the fifteenth century, the degradation of printing especially in germany and .i.t.a.l.y..
in england, about this time, an attempt was made notably by caslon, who started business in london as a type founder in 1720..
caslon type is clear and neat and fairly well designed..
for the seventeenth century letters are at least pure and simple in line, the italian bodoni and the frenchman didot..
we're the leaders in this luckless change, though, our own baskerville, who was at work some years before them went much on the same lines..
the chiswick press in 1844 revived caslon founts printing for messrs longman, the diary of lady willoughby..
this experiment was so far successful that about 1850 messrs miller and richard of edinburgh..
have now come into general use and are obviously a great improvement on the ordinary modern style in use in england, which is in fact the bodoni type..
it is discouraging to note that the improvement of the last fifty years is almost wholly confined to great britain..
here and there a book is printed in france or germany with some pretension to good taste..
italy is contentedly stagnant..
america has produced a good many showy books the typography paper and illustrations of which are however all wrong..
even the caslon type when enlarged shows great shortcomings in this respect..
instead of ending in the sharp and clear stroke of jenson letters..
this is awkward if you have to read bradshaw guide in a hurry..
most of jenson letters are designed within a square..
by that made in america, which is the worst conceivable..
the position of our society that a work of utility might be also a work of art if we cared to make it so..
the chronicles of newgate volume 2 by arthur griffith's section 4 newgate newgate, down to 1818..
with criminals and misdemeanants of all shades crowding perpetually into its narrow limits, the latter state of newgate was worse than the first..
neild gives some figures which we'll illustrate this..
the numbers soon increased, however, and by 1811 had again risen to 629 and mr neild was told that there had been at one time..
300 debtors and 900 criminals in newgate or twelve hundred prisoners in all..
'previous to that date there had been 700 or 800 frequently and once in mr akerman time one thousand..
the inadequacy of the jail was noticed and reported upon again and again by the grand juries of the city of london..
w.h.o. seldom, let a session go by without visiting newgate..
the grand jury made a special presentment to the court of common council, pointing out that on the debtorside which was intended for only 100..
returns laid before the house of commons showed that 6,439 persons had been committed to newgate..
and this number did not include the debtors, a numerous class who were still committed to newgate pending the completion of the white cross street prison..
in order to realize the evils entailed by incarceration in newgate in these days, it is necessary to give some account of its interior..
full details of the arrangements are to be found in mr neild, state of prisons, in england, scotland and wales published in 1812..
neild takes it for granted that the former, rather than the latter, prevailed in the selection..
the long narrow yard still remained as we saw it in jacobite times..
quote on the top of the jail, continues neild are a watch house and a sentry box where two or more guards with dogs and firearms..
neild gives on the authority of mr. burchell, the under sheriff of middlesex..
a. ?t.a.b.l.e. showing the figures for the year ending michaelma's 1802..
fifteen thousand of these were issued in middlesex alone, which at that time was reckoned as only a fifteenth of great britain..
the number of arrests actually made was 114 300 for the kingdom and 7020 for middlesex..
neild also says that in 1793..
5719 writs and executions for debts between 10 and 20 were issued in middlesex..
alfred, the great established the court baron the hundred court and the county court, which, among other matters, entertained pleas for debt..
the county court was the sheriff who sat there surrounded by the bishop and the magnates of the county..
but as time passed difficulties and delays in obtaining judgment led to the removal of causes to the great court of king bench..
so much inconvenience ensued that in 1518 the corporation obtained from parliament, an act empowering two aldermen..
and four common councilmen to hold courts of requests or courts of conscience to hear and determine all causes of debt..
these courts were extended two centuries later to several large provincial towns and all were in full activity when neild wrote..
the activity, as well as the futility of these courts, may be estimated from the statement given by neild..
that thirteen hundred and twelve debtors were committed by them to newgate between 1797 and 1808..
neild found at his visit to newgate in 1810..
thus, amongst others, thomas blackburn had been committed on october 15th for a debt of 1 shilling 5 pence..
thomas dobson, on 22nd august 1799 for 1 shilling with costs of 8. shillings 10 pence..
and susannah evans in october, the same year for 2 shillings with costs of 6 shillings 8 pence..
other cases are recorded elsewhere as at the giltspur street compter where in 1805, mr neild found a man named william grant..
and john lancaster, for 1 shilling 8 pence with costs of 7 shillings 6 pence quote?.
these, surely, i thought, says mr. neild, were bad enough, but it was not so end quote..
he recites another most outrageous and extraordinary case in which one john bird..
bird was however discharged within three days by a subscription raised among his fellow prisoners..
mr. buxton, in his inquiry into the system of prison discipline..
the lad in question was found in coldbath fields prison to which he had been sent for a month in default of paying a fine of forty shillings..
he had been in the employ of a corn chandler at islington and went into london with his master cart and horse..
there was in the city road a temporary bar with a collector of tolls who was sometimes on the spot and sometimes not..
mr. buxton, friends at once, paid the forty shillings and the boy was released..
neild gives a list of the various items charged upon a debt of 10, which included instructions to s.u.e..
before dealing with the debtors in newgate, i may refer, incidentally..
to those in other london prisons for newgate, was not the only place of durance for these. unfortunate people there were also the king bench..
the fleet and the marshalsea prisons especially devoted to them..
whilst ludgate, the giltspur street and borough compters also received them..
the king bench was a national prison in which were confined all debtors arrested for debt or for contempt of the court of the king bench..
the best or at least the most influential prisoners got lodging in the state house, which contained eight large handsome rooms..
the keeper of the large tap room called the brace because it was once kept by two brothers named partridge also paid him toll..
the sale of spirits was forbidden, but gin could always be had at the whistling shops where it was known as moonshine sky blue..
mexico and was consumed at the rate of a hogshead per week..
the fleet, which stood in farringdon street..
was a prison for debtors and persons committed for contempt by the courts of chancery exchequer and common pleas..
it was so used for the date of the abolition of the star chamber in the 16th charles i..
the shameful malpractices of bambridge..
the warden of the fleet at the commencement of the eighteenth century are t.o.o. ?w.e.l.l. ?known to need more than a passing reference..
a committee of the house of commons investigated the charges against bambridge, who was proved to have connived at the escape of some debtors..
and to have been guilty of extortion to others, one sir william rich bart, he had loaded with heavy irons..
in consequence of these disclosures, both bambridge and huggin, his predecessor in t.h.e. ?o.ffice, were committed to newgate..
the committee on jails reported that quote although the house of the warden looked into the court..
matters, we're rather better at the marshalsea..
this very ancient prison, which stood in the high street southwark..
was used for debtors arrested for the lowest sums within twelve miles of the palace of whitehall..
also for prisoners committed by the admiralty court..
at one time, the marshalsea was the receptacle of pirates, but none were committed to it. ?a.f.t.e.r. 1789..
the court of the marshalsea was instituted by charles i in the sixth year of his reign..
but its business was much reduced by the extension of the courts of conscience..
the prison was a nest of abuses like its neighbor the king bench..
and came under the strong animadversion of the jail committee of 1729..
as the business of the marshalsea court declined the numbers in its prison diminished..
bad language quarreling throwing water over one another was forbidden on pain of fine and being sent to coventry..
owing to many charitable gifts and bequests which included annual donations from the archbishop of canterbury..
the lord steward of the household the steward and officers of the marshalsea court and others..
left by a mr henry allnutt who was long a prisoner in the marshalsea and came into a fortune while there..
h.i.s. bequest, which was charged upon his manor at goring oxon and hence, called the oxford charity..
the supreme control of the marshalsea was vested in the marshal of the royal household, but although he drew a salary of 500 a year..
the compters of ludgate, giltspur, street and the borough were discontinued as debtor's prisons as was newgate also..
on !t.h.e. ?opening of whitecross prison for debtors in 1815..
ludgate to the last was the debtor's prison for freemen of the city of london..
clergymen proctors attorneys and persons specially selected by the corporation..
at one time, the ludgate debtors accompanied by the keeper..
the giltspur street compter received sheriff's debtors also felons vagrants and night charges..
it was generally crowded as debtors who would have gone to the poultry compter were sent to giltspur street when the former was condemned as unfit to receive prisoners..
the demands for fees were excessive in giltspur street..
the borough compter was in a disgraceful state to the last the men. ward had an earth or rather a mud floor..
in one room mr neild found a woman ill of a flux shut up with three men..
neild found the prisoners in the borough compter, ragged, starving and dirty..
i come now to the debtors in newgate the quarters they occupied were divided as i have said into three principal divisions..
this was the reprehensible claim for garnish which had already been abolished in all well conducted prisons but which still was demanded in newgate..
on the master side, it was thirteen and fourpence and a gallon of beer on entrance, although mr. newman..
and gave the garnish for the common side at that sum, which is five shill,i'ngs more than mr. neild says, was extorted on the common side..
there was this much honest forbearance in newgate in these days..
notably, as when numbers filled newgate in anticipation of lord redesdale bill for insolvent debtors..
the chronicles of newgate volume 2 by arthur griffith's section 5, newgate, down to 1818, part 2..
enough has been said, probably to prove that there was room for improvement in the condition and treatment of debtors in the prisons of the city of london..
this gradually was forced upon the consciousness of the corporation..
authority was given to raise money on the orphan's fund to the extent of 90 0..
a site was purchased between red lion and white cross streets and a new prison planned..
w.h.i.c.h. would accommodate the inmates of newgate and of the three compters ludgate..
giltspur street and the poultry or about four hundred and seventy six in all..
and it was not ready to relieve newgate till late in 1815..
could not be carried out till then it is to be feared that long after the opening of white cross street prison..
newgate continued to be a reproach to those responsible for its management..
i pass now to the criminal side of newgate, which consisted of the six quarters or yards, already enumerated and described..
in this heterogeneous society were also thrown the unfortunate journalists to whom i have already referred and on whom imprisonment in newgate..
it was particularly recommended by the committee on jails in 1814..
the hon h. g. bennet, who visited newgate in 1817, saw in one yard in a total of seventy two prisoners..
mr. bennet refers to a gentleman confined for want of bail who occupied a room with five others..
quote a common sized man, says the keeper, mr. newman can turn in nineteen inches end quote..
these often remained in newgate for six months, sometimes a year in some cases longer..
mr. newman admitted that he had petitioned that certain trusty men might be left in the jail..
mr. bennet mentions also the case of young men of better stamp clerks in city offices and youths of good parentage..
mr. buxton in the work already quoted instances another grievous case of the horrors of indiscriminate association in newgate..
having been committed to clerkenwell?.
he was sent on to newgate in a coach handcuffed to a noted house breaker who was afterwards cast for death..
the first night in newgate and for the subsequent fortnight?.
h.i.s. wife visited him in newgate and wrote a pitiable account of the state in which she found her husband..
the fee for admission to the state side, as fixed by the table of fees, was three guineas, but mr. newman declared that he never took more than two..
a mr. lundy charged with forgery was thus accommodated on the state side for upwards of five years..
mr. davison sent to newgate for embezzlement and whose case is given in the preceding chapter..
was accommodated with a room in mr. newman house at the extravagant rental of thirty guinea's per week..
mr cobbett was also a lodger of mr newman, and so were any members of the aristocracy..
if they happened to be in funds among whom was the marquis of sligo in 1811..
w.h.i.c.h. will deal with mrs. fry philanthropic exertions at this period in this particular part of the prison..
once during the long illness of george iii, as many as one hundred were there, waiting the report as it was called..
mr bennet speaks of thirty eight capital convicts he found in the press yard in february 1817..
these capital convicts, says mr bennet, quote, lessened the ennui and despair of their situation by unbecoming merriment..
i saw cashman a few hours before his execution smoking and drinking with the utmost unconcern and indifference end quote..
well might mr bennet write that the condition of the condemned side was the most prominent of the manifold evils in the present system of newgate..
such as messrs, birch of cornhill and messrs, leach and dollimore of ludgate hill..
preparatory to their appearance in the old bailey, irons were seldom removed from the convicted until discharge..
any reputed and indeed any real wife might spend the night in newgate if she would pay the 'shilling fee commonly' known as the bad money?.
kept open house, so to speak and entertained daily within the walls, a select party of the most noted thieves in london..
owing to the facility of intercourse between inside and outside many crimes were doubtless hatched in newgate..
i believe, says mr bennet, in the letter already largely quoted..
that there is no place in the metropolis, where more crimes are projected or where stolen property is more secreted than in newgate..
although attempted partially at bridewell and more systematically at the new millbank penitentiary..
it was not strange, therefore, that the inmates of newgate should turn their unoccupied brains and idle hands to all manner of mischief..
the report of the committee of the house of commons painted so black a picture of newgate as then conducted that the corporation were roused in very shame..
the court of aldermen appointed a committee of its own body assisted by the town clerk mr dance city, surveyor, son to the architect of newgate..
and mr. addison keeper of newgate to make a visitation of the jails supposed to be the best managed, including those of petworth and gloucester..
also to make such proposals, as might appear salutary and calculated to improve newgate and the rest of the city jails..
had they been accepted in their entirety, little fault could in future have been found with the managers of newgate..
the committee did not deny the superior advantages offered by such prisons as gloucester and p.e.t.w.o.r.t.h..
end quote, it would cover some thirty acres and cost a great deal more than the city with the example of whitecros's street prison before it..
the committee does not seem to have yet understood that newgate could be only and properly replaced..
by a new jail built on the outskirts as holloway eventually was and permitted itself to be altogether countered..
and checked in its efforts towards reform by the prohibitory costliness of the land about newgate..
it was very desirable that there should be a more speedy removal of transports from newgate to the ships..
again, there was the new millbank penitentiary now ready for occupation..
w.hy not relieve newgate by drawing more largely upon the superior accommodation which millbank offered..
the chronicles of newgate volume 2 by arthur griffith's section 7, the beginnings of prison reform..
while mrs fry was diligently engaged upon her self imposed task in newgate..
h.owa.r.d. energy and devotion were rewarded by lively sympathy but the desire to improve which followed his exposures was but short lived..
mr. neild a second howard..
mr. neild was compelled to admit in 1812 that the great reformation produced by howard..
i have shown in a previous chapter what newgate was at this period, despite a vast expenditure and boasted efforts to introduce reforms..
a king son, the duke of gloucester, was the patron among the vice presidents were many great peers of the realm..
several bishops and a number of members of the house of commons, including mr manners sutton..
mr sturges bourne, sir james james mackintosh, sir james scarlett and william wilberforce..
one of the moving spirits was the honorable h. g. bennet m. p. whose vigorous protests against the lamentable condition of newgate have already been recorded..
mrs. fry brother, mr. samuel hoare junior, was chairman of the committee on which also served many noted members of the society of friends..
mr gurney, mr fry, messrs forster and mr t f buxton, the coadjutor of wilberforce, in the great anti slavery struggle..
mr. buxton had already been associated with mrs. fry in the newgate visitation and his attention had thus been drawn to the neglected state of english prisons..
when in belgium, he had examined with great satisfaction, the admirable management of the great maison de force at ghent..
which howard had eulogized some forty years before?.
mr. buxton, small work on prison discipline gave a new aspect to the question he had so much at heart..
they had a right mr. buxton affirmed to be employed in their own crafts, provided it could be safely followed in prison..
the convicted delinquent has his rights, said mr. buxton authoritatively..
as mr. buxton pointed out, many old acts of parliament designed to protect the prisoner were still in full force..
as far back as the reign of charles ii, a law was passed declaring that sufficient provision should be made for the relief and setting on work..
again, the 22 charles ii c 20 ordered the jailer to keep felons and debtors separate and apart from one another..
a. much later act, the 14 george iii c 59 1774..
which was contemporaneous, with howard first journeys laid down precise rules as regards cleanliness and t.h.e. proper supply of space and air..
by t!h?e ?3!1, george iii c. 46 s. 5..
the most important jail act of that early period, however, was the 24 george iii c 54 s 4 1784..
in an early report of the prison discipline, improvement society..
i.n 1818, out of five hundred and eighteen prisons in the united kingdom..
to specify more particularly one or two of the worst, it may be mentioned that in the borough compter..
mr. buxton, who found this declared that it seemed physically impossible, but he was assured that it was true..
and the turnkey told mr. buxton that the smell on first opening the door was eno.u'gh to k.nock down a horse..
at guildford prison, which mr buxton also visited in 1818..
matters, we're on much the same footing at st albans..
they were far worse at bristol..
although at mr. buxton visit a new jail, was in process of erection, the first step towards reform since howard visitation in 1774..
in the crowd, all of them persons who had no other avocation or mode of livelihood but thieving, mr. buxton counted eleven children..
it was a scene of infernal passions and distresses, says buxton, which few have imagination sufficient to picture..
confinement for twelve months in the bristol jail was counted a punishment equivalent to seven year's transportation..
already as early as 1818, a prison existed at bury st edmunds, which was a model for imitation to others at that time..
another jail that of ilchester was also worthy of all commendation, it e?x'h,ibited, all the good points of that at bury..
at ilchester, the rule of employment had been carried further..
a system not adopted generally till nearly half a century later had already prevailed at ilchester..
compared with those highly meritorious institutions, newgate still showed but badly..
mainly through the exertions of a new governor, mr brown, who succeeded mr newman at new.gate in 1817..
mr brown confidently asserted that no jail in england now fed its inmates so well as did newgate..
mr brown, also much to his own credit, brought about the abandonment of the practice of ironing all prisoners as a matter of course..
in 1818, prisoners awaiting trial in newgate were at length relieved from this illegal infliction..
mr. buxton mentions the case of a boy whose apparent innocence and artlessness had attracted his attention..
he left newgate utterly corrupted and after lapsing into crime soon, returned with a very different character..
some attempt was made to reduce the overcrowding on the recommendation of the house of commons committee of 1818, but this applied only a partial remedy..
thus disposing of the objection so long raised against the industrial employment of prisoners in newgate..
as the prison discipline, society pertinently observed in a report dated 1820..
the chronicles of newgate volume 2 by arthur griffith's section 8, the beginnings of prison reform..
newgate prisoners were the victims to another most objectionable practice, which obtained all over london..
even then they were not certain of the favor for i find a reference to a decent and respectable woman sent to newgate..
one smug alderman, a member of the house of commons, sneered at the ultra philanthropy of the champions of prison improvement..
our prisoners have all that prisoners ought to have without gentlemen, think they ought to be indulged with turkey carpets..
the society for the improvement of prison discipline was taxed with a desire to introduce a system..
a.n. imputation, which the society indignantly and very justly repudiated the statement being as they said..
among those whom the society found arrayed against it was sydney smith..
while fully admitting the good intentions of the society, he condemned their ultra humanitari,anism as misplaced..
he took exception to various of the proposals of the society he thought they leant too muc'h' !t.o. 'a' !s!y!s?t.e.m. ?of !i.n.dulgence and e!d.u.c.a.t.i.on ?i.n. ?j.a.i.l.s..
the society pursued its laudable undertaking with remarkable energy and great singleness of purpose..
a much needed and according to our idea's indispensable reform already initiated by the ladies committee at newgate..
the good, it tried to do took active shape in the establishment of temporary refuges at hoxton for males and in the hackney road for females..
for the reception of deserving cases discharged from prison, the governor of newgate and other metropolitan prisons had orders of admission to this refuge..
and in moral and religious duty and which, after a time sought to provide them with suitable situations, was supported entirely out of the funds of t.h.e. society..
another point to which the society devoted infinite pains was the preparation of plans for the guidance of architects in the construction of prisons..
a very valuable volume published by the society..
or a dungeon above or below the gate of a town to the first attempts at systematic reconstruction carried out under the advice and supervision of h?oward..
was introduced as early as 1790 by mr blackburn..
the society did not limit its remarks to the description of what had already been done..
the new jails, as howard says having pompous fronts, appear like palaces to the lower class of people and many persons are against them on this account..
the prison society reproves the misdirected efforts of ambitious architects who, by a lavish and improvident expenditure of public money..
these are principles fully recognized now a days and it may fairly be conceded that the prison discipline society ideal..
after a few years of active exertion, the society was rewarded by fresh legislation..
to its efforts and their effect upon parliament and the public mind, we must attribute the new jail acts of 4 george iv..
cap 64 and 5 george iv cap 85..
classification was insisted upon in the manner laid down by the 24 george iii cap 54..
the second act passed in the following year enlarged and amended the first and at the same time gave powers to the house..
the promulgation of these two jail acts strengthened the hands of the prison discipline society enormously..
the society did not shrink from its self imposed duty but continued year after year with unflagging energy and unflinching spirit to watch closely..
u.p.on these and the private visitations made by various members, the society obtained the facts..
j.a.i.l.s. of which the old prison at reading was a specimen, we're still left intact..
numbers of the jails were still unprovided with chaplains and the prisoners never heard divine service..
the interior of one prison was illuminated throughout with gas still a novelty which had been generally adopted in london only four years previously..
four years later, the prison society reported..
at the new prison, clerkenwell, which had become the principal reception jail of middles.e.x. and so took all the untried..
yet to clerkenwell, we're now committed the juveniles and all who were inexperienced in crime..
mr. peel, who as home secretary had charge of the bill?.
w.hich became the 4 george iv cap 64 said that he had abstained from legislating for these small jurisdictions on mature deliberation..
at this time there were in england, one hundred and seventy boroughs, cities towns and liberties..
as the society put it in 1827, the friends to the improvement of prison discipline will regret to learn..
the society proceeded to support this indictment by facts it is much the old story..
as is shown by the report of the commissioners to inquire into the state of the municipal corporation's in, 1835..
thus dina's mwddy in merionethshire had besides the pinfold and the stocks or crib a little prison..
clun in shropshire had a lock up under the town hall..
at eye in suffolk, the jail was part of the poor house, so it was at richmond in yorkshire, where the master of the workhouse was also keeper of the jail,.
at godmanchester, there was no jail, but a cage to secure prisoners till they could be taken before a magistrate..
kidderminster had a prison one damp chill room..
at walsall in staffordshire..
new.gate through all these years continued a bye word with the society..
but it was pointed out in 1823 that defective construction must always bar the way to any radical improvement in newgate..
in 1824, newgate had no glass in its windows, except in the infirmary and one ward of the chapel yard..
there was a diminution in the numbers in custody due to the adoption of the practice of not committing at once to newgate every offender for trial at the old bailey..
in 1827 the society was compelled to report that no material change had taken place in n.e.w.g.a.t.e. 's.i.n.c.e. .t.h.e. passing of the prison laws..
idleness was still the general rule for all prisoners in newgate in defiance of the law..
i shall have more to say on this subject and upon the state of newgate generally in the following chapter..
the prison society did not relax its efforts, as time passed, but its leading members had other and more pressing claims upon their energies..
mr. buxton had succeeded to the great work which william wilberforce had commenced and led the repeated attacks upon slavery in british colonies..
nevertheless, a committee of the house of commons was appointed in 1831 to report upon the whole system of secondary punishments..
this committee animadverted strongly upon the system in force at the metropolitan jails and more especially upon the condition of newgate..
mr. samuel hoare was examined by this committee..
and stated that in his opinion, newgate, as the common jail of middlesex, was wholly inadequate to the proper confinement of its prisoners..
the prisoners were crowded together in the jail, contrary to the requirements of the 4 george iv..
again in 1835, prisons and their inmates became once more the care of the senate and the subject was taken up this time by the house of lords..
a committee was appointed under the presidency of the duke of richmond..
to inquire into and report upon the several jails and houses of correction in the counties, cities and corporate towns within england and wales..
the lord's committee fully recognized the painful fact..
still under the borough corporations, the commons committee gave it as their opinion that' t.h.e.y. .w.e.r.e. in a deplorable state..
in some large towns as at berwick on tweed southampton and southwark, they the prisons are in a very discreditable condition..
the lords committee on jails were of the same opinion and considered the prisons under corporat'e ?or peculiar, jurisdiction in a very unsatisfactory condition..
the whole question was again dealt with in lord john russell bill for the reform of the municipal corporations and with a more liberal election of town councilors..
the chronicles of newgate volume 2 by arthur griffith's section 9, the first report of the inspector of prisons..
newgate has remained rather in the background while the whole of the jails as a body were under discussion..
i shall now return to the great jail of the city of london and give a more detailed account of its condition and inner life..
these gentlemen were appointed in october 1835, owing to the strong representations of the lords committee..
mr. samuel hoare, when examined considered it indispensably necessary to carry out whatever system might be established..
sir frederick roe was of the same opinion as regards the appointment, but he would give the inspectors the power of acting as well as reporting..
with those who made the selection of the first inspectors and the two gentlemen appointed, we're probably the most fitted in england to be so employed..
one was mr. william crawford, the other the rev whitworth russell..
w.ill.i.am crawford had been one of the promoters and managers of the philanthropic society farm school..
later on, he had devoted himself to the personal investigation of the prisons of the united states..
at that time, the mild and intelligent prison discipline in force in pennsylvania, the legacy of the old quaker immigrants..
had made such prisons as auburn, a model for imitation..
france had sent misseurs beaumont and de tocqueville, who subsequently published several interesting works on the subject..
england was represented by mr crawford and the result of his inquiry was given to the public as an appendix to the house of commons report on secondary punishments..
mr. crawford was thoroughly versed in the still, imperfectly understood science of prison management and fully qualified for his new duties..
the second inspector, the rev whitworth russell, was the chaplain of millbank penitentiary?.
the great architectural experiment, which grew out of the strong representations of jeremy bentham and others and was the first national recognition of the principle..
messrs crawford and russell proceeded to carry out their new functions 'with commendable energy and without a moment, loss of time..
the ink was barely dry upon their letters of appointment before they appeared at newgate' a.n.d. .c.o.m.m.e.n.c.e.d. .a. ?s.e.a.rching investigation..
and limited it to newgate alone, newgate indeed became the sole theme of their first report..
there was no longer the faintest possible excuse for overcrowding the numbers now committed to newgate had sensibly diminished..
a.n. occasional prisoner or two committed by the houses of parliament, the courts of king bench, common pleas..
the exchequer, the commissioners of bankruptcy and of taxes, smugglers and a larger number sentenced for very short terms..
and for offenses of the most varying description by the central criminal court..
but incredible as it may appear the authorities of newgate declined to avail themselves of the advantages offered them..
no, doubt the governor for the time being. mr cope was in a great measure to blame for all this and for the want of proper classification..
i shall have occasion to speak again and more at length of mr cope, careless and perfunctory discharge..
he blamed the construction of newgate for the neglect of classification and was yet compelled to confess that he had made no attempt, whatever to carry it out..
within this the greatest nursery of crime in london should exercise even the commonest care for the person'al decency or comfort of the prisoners'.
and might always smoke his pipe undisturbed for although the use of tobacco had been prohibited since the report of the lords committee..
nothing was more prominently brought out by the inspectors than the inefficiency of the governor. at that time, mr. cope..
but it is only fair to mr. cope to state that he himself said he went whenever he could find time..
and it was not the least part of the blame imputed to him that he made special favorites of particular prisoners retaining of his own accord in newgate..
edward gibbon wakefield, who spent three years in newgate a little before the time of the inspector's first report..
said with justice that incredible scenes of horror occur in newgate..
it was moreover in his opinion, undoubtedly the greatest nursery of crime in london..
the most popular being the times morning herald and morning chronicle on sunday the weekly dispatch bell life and the weekly messenger..
novels flash songs play books such as jane shore grimm, german tales with cruikshank illustrations..
one of these published by stockdale, the inspectors styled a book of the most disgusting nature..
the donation of a philanthropic gentleman, captain brown, but these particularly the bible's bore little appearance of having been used..
a lad named matthew white has had a wound in his eye by a bone thrown at him, which very nearly destroyed vision..
watkin's knee joint is very severely injured..
a. prisoner baxter is in the infirmary in consequence of a severe injury to his wrist joint..
watkin's case referred to above is made the subject of another and a special report from the surgeon..
he was in the transport side when one of his fellows in endeavoring to strike another pris,on'er with a large poker missed his aim and struck watkin's knee..
on this female side, where the ladie's association still reigned supreme more system and a greater semblance of decorum was maintained..
the separation of the sexes was not indeed rigidly carried out in newgate as yet..
and the men could also at any time go for tea coffee and sugar to mrs brown shop, which was inside the female gate..
some member of the ladies association observed and commented upon the fact that a young rosy cheeked girl had been kept by the governor from transportation..
committed by the house of commons who had been lodged in the governor own house..
